Adverb Deftly - skillful in a clever way, in quick movement 
Verb Burgeoned - begin to grow/ increase rapidly; flourish
Conceit - narcissism, pride, hubristic, 
Conceit - means an extended rhetorical device, summed up in a short phrase (thought, imagery) 
Adjective Insidious - gradual, but harmful effects 
Adjective Insatiable - impossible to satisfy 
Adjective Fastidious - very attentive and concerned about accuracy and detail/cleanliness
Hubristic - hubris 
Retrospect - in the past
Meticulous - very methodical, great care, comparable to fastidious
beseech - beg , implore
Tenacious - unshakable, a firm hold on something 
Eloquent vs loquacious -> eloquent = talkative, loquacious = persuasive and effective in speaking
Verbatim - exactly the same words used originally 
Lamentable - hateable - lament
Docile - easily submissive 
Happy birthday word - felicitations
Reminisce, retrospect, nostalgia, nostalgic- remember the past 
pertinent - relevant 
Altruistic - selfless acts, unselfish
Facetious - making jokes in a serious times 
Invigorated - to energize
Egregious - bad
Dubious - hesitating or doubting, suspicious 
brevity - conciseness, briefness, shortness of time
Sanctimonious- making a show of being morally superior to other people - sententious, moralizing, moralistic in a pompous manner. 
Pompous - self pride, grand and self importance, grandiloquence 
poignant - a keen sense of sadness or regret. 
Querulous - complaining in a whining manner  
Sporadic - periodical,  irregular, only in a few places, spasmodic
Vigilant-keeping careful watch for possible dangers
Crooning - hum or sing in a soft voice, sentimentally 
Euphoric- happiness and intense excitement 
Nuance - little details, expression 
brash : loud and rude
frugal : cheap, low cost 
Postulated: assume the existence of (postulate)
Deference, deferential - giving respect. Reverence 
Gratuitous - uncalled for, lacking good reason.
Gesticulate- gesture like, 
INdefatigable - persisting tirelessly, a person of effort 
apparatus - technical equipment needed for activity/ purpose, equipment, gear.
Patronize/patronizing , condescending - kind or helpful, but betraying a feeling of superiority. 
maudlin , maudlin tone, sentimental or self pityingly tone often when, but not always drunk.
Incredulity -disbelief, incredulous
Promiscuous - having multiple relationships/ opp. Monogamy,.
Emphatically - in a forceful way 
Banal - very unoriginal, boring 
Acute - sharp perception of understanding - shrewd or can describe a bad situation of intesnse degree
Inadequate - not having enough quality or quantity of something. Inadequacy - scanty
Prejudice - bias, based on opinion that is not reasoning. The verb = to make biased
Adjective Lustrous- shinning having luster,
Noun Luster - the shine that usually comes from reflections
Queer- strange, odd > eccentric, eccentricity oddness 
Dignity: self worth or the state of being worthy of respect.
Incessant: something horrible, not stopping.
Indispensable- absolutely necessary, crucial
pseudoscience - beliefs that are mistaken to be based off a scientific method.
Conviction - a firmly held opinion (noun), not the criminal conviction.
Pensive - deep thought and serious, reflective.
Melancholy - pensive sadness usually without obvious cause
Taut- tense not relaxed (adj)
Sated- satisfied, sufficient 
Satiety- the state of being sated, sufficient.
Provocative- causing annoyance, anger or another strong reaction especially deliberately.
Façade - an act or pretense conceal a much more credible reality
Pretense-false display of feelings
Semblance - outward apparence, especially when reality is different
Cynical- believing that people are motivated by self interest and no sincerity or integrity 
Seldom- rarely
Vigorously- actions that involve strength effort 
Obstinately- stubbornly refusing to change opinion or action, even with persuasion, ADAMANTLY 
Incomparably- immesurble by far
Preeminent: superior, distinguished in some way
Precipitous- dangerously steep /down suddenly without consideration.
Condemn - express disapproval usually publicly
Extravagant- (costs related) costing too much money 
Sullen - irritation or gloom, 
Gaudily- extravagant coloring on items 
Grimace- disgusted face in pain or wry contempt
Brooding - serious thought of unhappiness, appearing dark and menacing (brooding voice, low voice)
Pretentious - exaggeration, impress greater than actually implied 
Sentiment: opinion, view 
Indignant - anger at being treated unfairly perceived -aggrieved 
Tactfully-skill in being able to deal with others or with difficult issues - politely 
Indiscretion- indiscreet or lack of good judgment in speech. Impolite
Unorthodox- not traditional, not orthodox
Innocuous- not harmful or offensive 
Unconscionable- not reasonable, or unreasonable excessive
Risible- laughable, provoking laughter 
Ludicrous- so absurd that it’s laughable,
Unrequited- one sided love , or any other feeling
Deluge - inundate with a great quantity of something, flood
Inundate- flood, overwhelm, inundated 
Former, the latter - the first, the second respectively, beginning and end.
Digress- leave the main topic for a moment
Limelight- popularity, the focus of public attention
Remedy - to set right
Retroactively - to take effect in the past, extend to a prior time.
Insinuate- to suggest something bad indirectly or implied.
Double entendre- double meaning, one of which is indecent or sexual.
Credence- belief or acceptance that something is true 
Connotation- an idea or feeling that a word invokes in additional meaning. “But it didn’t have a negative connotation”(discord)
Deplorable- receiving widespread condemnation
Sesquipedalian -polysyllabic, long words
Polysyllabic- many syllables in a word 
Euphemism- something that hides another meaning. Embarrassing inside joke.
Rectify- amend, remedied, to make right.
Taint - leaving a bad quality of substance, or pollute, tarnish.
Fussy- fastidious about needs, hard to please, or just fastidious.
Divisive-tending to cause disagreement between people.
Imbue - permeate or filled with a characteristic
Indisposed, disposed - unwilling, willing, respectively 
Prudent - very careful, fastidious
Archaic - very old fashioned, quaint, but not as attractive 
Derogatory - very offensive
quixotic - overly idealistic, unrealistic 
Dichotomy - division or contracts between two things, as `tes.
whimsical - quaint or fanciful, in an attractive way. 
Levity- jokingly, or lightness, facetiousness due to lack of respect 
frivolity- lightness and jokingly, to be frivolous, no serious purpose or value
Elude- escape in a cunning way 
Vicariously - in a way that is experienced in the imagination through the actions of another pearson 
Pretext- a reason in justification of a course of action that is not the real reason
Elusive - hard to catch, or achieve 
callously  - cruel disregard for others
Defenestration - the act of throwing someone out the window
elucidate - explain, but sounding more pretentious 
Perennial - perpetuating, still ongoing
Circumvent - to go around, or find a solution
Aforementioned - denoting a thing  mentioned before 
circumstantially - pertinent, but not substantial 
prevailing - current, existing.
prevail , prevailed- persuade, exist, and to prove more than what is thought of to be. 
stifling - make someone feel stressed, low room 
Innuendo - an allusion or a reference, an oblique remark, not done in the direct way Oblique - not done in the direct way, geometry means slanted 
Intuition - common feeling that's already there, instinctive feeling 
Intuitive - common sense, based on innate knowledge 
Counterintuitive, lack of common sense, contrary to intuition. 
Chiefly - mostly, mainly
Fiasco - a complete failure of something, a ludicrous or humiliating predicament, debacle
Acclimate - to get used to something, adapt to new conditions 
Insurmountable - to great to overcome, insuperable
Ostracized - excluded from a group or society
Inexplicable - cannot be explained or accounted for, inexplicit 
Juxtaposed - compared next to each other usually meaning opposites, juxtaposition
Myriad - a countless amount of something a great number, innumerable, multitude 
Contrary and complement - contrary opposites, complement is to match  
Conversely - to introduce another idea that shows the reverse that was previously referred to
Sulking - to be silent and moroose, out of disappointment or annoyance 
Pragmatic - to deal a challenge in a reasonable way
transient - only lasting for a short period of time
Effable - being able to be described in words
Disinformation v misinformation- dis is intentional and mis is accidental.
Disingenuous - not being sincere, especially when pretending that someone knows less than they really know. Deceitful. 
Correlation implies causation fallacy - fallacy 
Post hoc fallacy - if event A takes place before event B than event A should have caused event B, which is false.
Inexorably-in a way that is impossible to stop or prevent
prospective : likely to happen in the future, application or something like that.
Nepotism- the practice among those with power and influence to favor friends/ family, especially by giving them jobs. 
Dilettante - a person who is doing something without any commitment or knowledge. 
Coincided- happening at the same time 
Unequivocally - in a way that makes no doubt
Homily - lecture involving moral or spiritual advice
Didactic - primary aim of teaching, with emphasis on teaching moral principles 
Dilapidated - object that is in disrepair from age or neglect. 
Ostensible - sated or appearing true, but not necessarily so, semblance 
Magnanimous - benevolence or generosity
Supposition - idea 
Remuneration - work paid for a service 
Futility - uselessness
Lethargic - apathetic, lazy 
Econ - Planned obsolescence - intentionally making a product obsolete after a certain period of time
Pejorative - contemptuous, showing contempt or disapproval. 
Quarry - a thing or person that is chased or sought.
Errant: straying from normality. -delinquency. 
elicit -provoke or a response 
Solace - comfort in times of stress
Debauchery - indulge in too much pleasure
Esoteric - words/ phrases that only certain people can understand. 
Scrupulous - a person that is diligent, meticulous, fastidious
Contiguous - next or together in sequence.
Valorize- give or ascribe value or validity to something.
Prerogative: a right or privilege. 
Equivocal - open to more than one interpretation, ambiguous, ambivalent. 
Disposition: your character/ your tendency to - inclined to/ disposed to…
Insolent: impertinent/ rudeness. 
Bilious: anger, badtempered, also associated with nausea/vomiting.
Exulted: to feel jubilated, excited
Exalted: high in honor 
Meekest: quiet and gentle, submissive 
Treachery: dangerous/ betray of trust & deception
Sensuously: sexual gratification/pleasure.
Impersonal: not showing personal feelings
indifferent : don't care enough 
Promenade: take a leisurely public walk, stroll
Trysting: meeting a lover in private
Sonorous: voice very deep and full, style is extravagant
Suave: charming/sophisticated
Trepidation: fear of something that may happen
tenuous : weak, slim and fashionable
Incantatory: incantation like
Precarious: dangerous
Irreparable: in a way that can’t be repaired
Delineate: describe something very precise 
Impunity: exempt from punishment
Rebuke: sharp disapproval for someone 
Conciliatory: intended to server others to please them, servile.
Amicable: friendly
Chauvinism - obsessive patriotism or prejudiced support for a group
inhibition - consciousness - unable to act smooth 
premise - idea
