Instructions:

1. Go to the spent website: http://playspent.org/

2. Play the fun and informative game! (Make sure to have sound on for sound effects!)

3. Take notes, in bullet points, on what you notice, learn, or find interesting while playing

4. After finishing the game, answer the following questions in at least 3 sentences:

5.  Submit your completed copy of this Google Doc to Google Classroom

Notes:
	•	It was interesting how the sound effects matched the things you chose.
	•	Everything you chose affected the future of the story. 
	•	Since we first started out, we needed to save as much money as possible. 
	•	I also thought that it was interesting that random curveballs can influence so much of people’s lives. 
	•	I learned to not worry about money too much if a payday is near. 
	•	I learned to prioritize more important things, such as a child's life or the mothers. 

Response:

What was difficult for you?
What was difficult was to choose to not spend money on some important things, such as field trips or afterschool programs, since we didn’t have the money to buy it. What was also difficult was to try to predict the outcome of our choices in this game. Since it was really hard to predict the outcome, some choices made me lose a lot of money overtime. 
What was easy for you?
What was easy for me was saving money because all I had to do was turn down offers and stack money. But sometimes these turn downs can actually remove opportunities for your child or for the person. What was also easy was to choose the cheapest solution, as we desperately needed the money. 
What are 3 things you noticed or learned from this game?
I learned that managing money is very important in real life.
I also learned that saving money could very help you in the future because you will never know what life throws at you. 
I also noticed that many of these choices could affect what your reputation would be like. Ex: Job reputation/friends.  
How can you apply what you learned to your own life?
I could apply what I learned from this game by actually looking at the costs and the effects of my spendings. I could also use what I learned about paydays to see what I really need before spending it all on wants. Finally, I could use what I learned from this game to go out and spend my saved money on actual needs instead of almost “needs” Ex: Would probably buy more rice instead of small snacks. 


