1. Which skill did you receive the highest score for? (1) Do you agree that this is your strongest skill? (2)
I scored highest on time management (16/20). I agree that this is my strongest skill as for school work or homework, I usually finish on time and try to finish it as fast as possible, but still getting it correct. Because I finish my homework and schoolwork as soon as possible and as correctly as possible, I can spend more time on my extracurricular activities such as piano or learning chinese.  
2. Which skill did you receive the lowest score for? (1) Do you agree that this is your weakest skill? (2)
Problem solving and decision making (6/15) was my lowest score. I agree that this is my weakest skill, as when trying to solve some problem, I tend to take more time on trying to think of a solution. Sometimes, I don’t choose the right solution, and maybe won’t even solve some problems correctly, and that could improve.
3. Based on the 5 skill categories from the test, which skill would you want to focus on improving right now? (2)
I want to focus on improving my problem solving and decision making as that is my worst  skill. I also want to improve on problem solving and decision making because it will help me manage when to use my other skills that I have. 
4. For each skill category, give one example of something you can do to improve this skill. (5)
For leadership and management, I can speak up, give ideas, and try to lead a discussion/work when in school and when in groupworks. When trying to improve on problem solving and decision making, I feel like trying to have a clearer mind before thinking about the solution to this problem will really help me improve this skill. Active listening or focusing on another person whenever they are talking can help improve my communication skills. For trying to improve time management, I can think about how I can spread my schedule effectively before the job or activity is given out. For improving personal mastery, I can try to set personal goals; as said in the website, using SMART will help me feel more positive and help me set goals for myself. 
5. What is one skill not listed on the quiz that you’d like to personally work on? Explain! (2)
I think a skill I could try to improve on that is not listed in the quiz is self-management. Sometimes, I over work myself for some homework or schoolwork and usually don’t realize how tired I am, or how much I need rest. Even if this is like personal mastery, self management is a skill that can be very useful in knowing when to stop or to take a break. 
