Option #1: 
I am deeply passionate about the field of computer science and the application of logical thinking in problem-solving.

After taking AP Computer Science in my sophomore year, I took a summer job at a restaurant managing their physical invoices and paperwork. I was tasked with organizing files into separate folders on the cloud based on their date. I took the opportunity to automate this task using Java by implementing an OCR (optical character recognition) to convert each file into a text file and then sort the files appropriately into OneDrive. This experience further solidified my passion for computer science and the technology’s potential to streamline and improve various processes.

Artificial Intelligence, I believe will help in creating the future that can improve lives, by enabling faster, more efficient, and accurate decision-making, automating sophisticated tasks, and the creation of personalized experiences. Artificial Intelligence also has the potential to tackle some of the world's most pressing challenges, such as climate change, disease, and security threats. By studying Artificial Intelligence through UCCosmos, I aim to gain a hands-on experience and deepen my understanding of its underlying concepts, setting the foundation for future endeavors.

Option #2: 
I am interested in semiconductors and engineering because it has played a crucial role in the advancement of technology. After taking chemistry last year, and continuing with taking AP chemistry this year, I want to understand a more specific topic relating to what I have learned over the past semesters. Atomic structure, thermodynamics, and kinetics are some topics for labs that have gotten me interested in semiconductors, as they gave me a deeper appreciation for the science behind the technology I use every day. I have gained an understanding that the properties of materials are intimately tied to the atomic structure and arrangement of their constituent particles and through kinetics, I strive further in understanding of the dynamic processes that occur within materials and how they can be influenced by changes in temperature, pressure, and other factors. 

Ultimately, by studying through UCCosmos, I aim to gain a hands on experience and deepen my understanding for the basis of device engineering. I believe that by exploring the intricacies of semiconductors and device engineering, I will be able to gain a comprehensive knowledge of the field that will allow me to contribute to the advancement of technology in a meaningful way. 

Final Statement of Interest:
When I was young, I was introduced to the importance and value of money through my grandparents. My grandma performed household chores in other people's homes to make money, and my grandpa worked at a supermarket frying fish for customers. After school, my grandma and I would bus to her workplace, where she folded the laundry, cleaned, and cooked for the homeowner.

Their frugal spending of their wages shaped me into also saving the small change I had, but it was up until I was 14 that my parents opened a savings account and introduced me to investing. I had two summer jobs when I graduated from middle school, MYEEP (San Francisco’s youth program) and as a camp counselor at my local church and opened a Roth IRA to start investing the money I had earned through mutual funds and ETFS. Eventually I had an idea to help people like my grandparents with their financial literacy and their investing journey. I started an investment club in my high school during my freshman year, which helped me develop my leadership abilities and fueled my desire to continue my financial education. As the founder of the club, I have led a group of officers to guide others in learning and investing with over 30 members. Throughout the semesters, we have had over 20 meetings, discussing a wide range of topics from risk management to bonds and inflation. The lessons taught by my grandparents and my parents, coupled with my own experiences, have molded me into someone who is dedicated to helping others achieve financial literacy and stability. The investment club I started has further fueled my passion for finance as well as technology, continuing to strive to use my skills and knowledge to make a positive impact in people's lives
