The most interesting fact I ever learned from research was … when I wanted to understand the impact of the beats per minute of music on running performance. I decided to correlate BPM with runners' body weights. I first chose randomly from a playlist of 70s-90s music from Spotify's relatively “slow” music genre with BPMs of 74-90 Beatles “Now and Then” and “Hey Jude”. Then I chose from a different playlist more speedy BPMs of 160-180 from the same time period. I gave these treatments randomly selected per pair and tested 34 people over the year. The results were fascinating. With a p value that was less than .05, it turned out that music had a significant impact on running performance.

... I invested my salary from my recent paycheck at a part-time job into my Roth Ira. I had re-invested in VFIAX, a mutual fund, which had gone up 5% from last week which is really great. It’s also really great that my AP Macroeconomics is learning similar things about investment and personal finances. 

.. I love running. I decided to make a statistical study after becoming entranced with different types of music and running with friends. In dragon boat, I became motivated by personal health and fitness, seeing as Dragon-boat is not really about running, but in cross country I found competition, sparking a personal rivalry with a friend. 


My interest in the field of Statistics and Data Science was ignited while working at Dumpling Depot, a local restaurant and community. I encountered the practical problem of organizing invoices. Recognizing an opportunity to combine my programming skills with data management, I developed a solution that would save time and streamline the process. I created a program that employed OCR to convert scanned invoices into legible data. As a result, the piles of paper vanished, and the cumbersome metal filing cabinets were removed, freeing up valuable office space. This experience -- a combination of data analysis and implementation of computer programming -- exposed me to the power of data-driven solutions and ignited my interest in the field of Data Science. 


Growing up with a Christain family, I usually would volunteer at my local church on Sundays, but for becoming a leader for a kids summer camp? I had little confidence talking to groups, and attempted to launch whole-heartedly into the icebreakers. 

I didn’t do well.

At the next team debriefing, I was given genuine advice from others. Everyone helped each other by sharing their knowledge and experiences, allowing all of us to learn and build a sense of community. When my next turn to lead my own activity came a couple weeks later, I felt more confident, utilizing the tips I was given knowing that I vastly improved.

... clearly Japan. After finishing the "Shibuya-Arc" in a show that has recently concluded their season, I would love to go to Shibuya, Tokyo, or even hiking at Mt. Fuji, farther away. A professor, Peter Lau, whom I was a teacher assistant for the University of Washington for Financial Modeling and Statistics has also taught at the University of Tokyo which I could also visit. 
